Reorg env vars (#2801)
astronomer/docs: astro/env-vars-astro.md

Reviewer: Sorry to have to switch the links up again, but I feel strongly that `env-vars-astro` and `environment-variables` are too similar. Maybe `edit-environment-variables` instead? Or `env-vars-overview` and `environment-variables`

Reviewer 2: I'm good with `edit-environment-variables`, but I would _not_ recommend changing `environment-variables`. That link is baked into our docs in so many places, we'd need to follow up outside of this PR with that update. I'm afraid of adding that many more file changes to this PR

---
sidebar_label: 'Edit environment variables'
title: 'Manage environment variables on Astro'
id: env-vars-astro
description: Learn how to manage environment variables on Astro
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> On Astro, you can add, edit, update, or delete environment variables in the following different ways for your Deployment:
> 
> - Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
> - Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` when deploying code
> - With the Astro CLI
>     - Your Astro project's `.env` file
>     - Using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Astro, you can create, update, or delete environment variables for a Deployment in the following ways:

- Using the Deployment's **Variables** tab in the Cloud UI.
- Using your Astro project `Dockerfile`.

The way you manage environment variables can affect security and access for your variable data. See [Choose a strategy](environment-variables.md#choose-a-strategy) to determine which management strategy is right for your use case.

Additionally, you can test environment variables from your local Astro environment and export them to the Cloud UI. See [Manage environment variables locally](#manage-environment-variables-locally).
```

The method you choose depends on your [specific use case](environment-variables.md#choose-the-strategy-to-manage-environment-variables). 

Use this document to create environment variables on Astro.

> ## Using the Cloud UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Cloud UI

Setting environment variables using the Cloud UI is the quickest and easiest way to manage environment variables on Astro.
```

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**.

4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This permanently hides the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.

5. Click **Update Environment Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.

### Edit or delete existing values

> After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. While you can modify environment variables that are set as **Secret**, however, the secret variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, you are prompted to enter a new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. You can modify environment variables that are set as **Secret**, but the existing secret variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, the existing value is erased and you are prompted to enter a new value.
```

To delete an environment variable from your Astro Runtime image, remove or comment the line in your `Dockerfile` that defines it.

:::info

Environment variables set in your Dockerfile are not visible in the Cloud UI.

:::

## Manage environment variables locally

You can use Astro CLI to set environment variables on Astro and your local Airflow environment. If you're developing locally, the best way to manage environment variables is using your Astro project `.env` file.

1. Open your Astro project `.env` file.

2. Use the following format to set your environment variables in the `.env` file:

    ```bash
    KEY=VALUE
    ```

    Environment variables should be in all-caps and not include spaces.

    Alternatively, you can run `astro deployment variable list --save` to copy environment variables from an existing Deployment to a file.

3. Restart your local environment using `astro dev restart`.

4. (Optional) You can run the following commands to confirm if your environment variables were applied:

>     1. Run `astro dev bash --scheduler` to login to the scheduler container.
>     2. Run `printenv | grep <your-env-variable>` in the container to print the environment variables and find your environment variable.
>     3. Run `exit` to exit the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To export the contents of your `.env` file to an Astro Deployment, run the following command:

```bash
astro deployment variable update --deployment-id <your-deployment-id> --load .env
```

:::caution

When you use the`.env` file to add or update environment variables on Astro, it will overwrite all existing variables in your Astro Deployment. To update only select environment variables, run the `astro deployment variable create` command without the `--load` option. For example, the following command creates two new environment variables without affecting existing Deployment environment variables:

```bash
astro deployment variable create AIRFLOW__CORE__DAGBAG_IMPORT_TIMEOUT=60 ENVIRONMENT_TYPE=dev --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv
```
:::

After you deploy environment variables, your Deployment automatically restarts to and applies the variables. To verify if the environment variables were applied correctly, go to the **Variables** tab of your Deployment in the Cloud UI. 

> ### Use multiple .env files

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Use multiple .env files
```

---

> sidebar_label: 'Edit environment variables'

Reviewer: I understand that we dont want to have "Manage" in the sidebar, but I also think we need to keep the verbs consistent between the sidebar and pages. Maybe one of those "know the rules so you can break them" instances?

title: 'Manage environment variables on Astro'
id: env-vars-astro
description: Learn how to manage environment variables on Astro
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

On Astro, you can add, edit, update, or delete environment variables in the following different ways for your Deployment:

- Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
- Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` when deploying code
- With the Astro CLI
    - Your Astro project's `.env` file
    - Using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`

The method you choose depends on your [specific use case](environment-variables.md#choose-the-strategy-to-manage-environment-variables). 

Use this document to create environment variables on Astro.

> ## With the Cloud UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Cloud UI
```

5. Click **Update Environment Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.

### Edit or delete existing values

After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. While you can modify environment variables that are set as **Secret**, however, the secret variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, you are prompted to enter a new value.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**. 

4. Modify the value of the variable you want to edit.

    ![Edit value location](/img/docs/variables-edit.png)

5. Click **Update Environment Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for updated variables to be applied to your Deployment.

> ## With your Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using your Dockerfile
```

If you want to store environment variables with an external version control tool, Astronomer recommends setting them in your `Dockerfile`. This file is automatically created when you first initialize an Astro project using `astro dev init`.

:::caution

Environment variables set in your `Dockerfile` are stored in plain text. For this reason, Astronomer recommends storing sensitive environment variables using the Cloud UI or a third-party secrets backend. For more information, see [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

:::

> 1. Go to your Astro project and open the `Dockerfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your Astro project `Dockerfile`.
```

2. To add the environment variables, declare an ENV command with the environment variable key and value. For example, the following `Dockerfile` sets two environment variables:

    <pre><code parentName="pre">
    {`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
    ENV AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_ACTIVE_RUNS_PER_DAG=1
    ENV AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR=25`}
    </code></pre>

> 3. After you add your environment variables, use the `astro deploy` command to apply your changes to your Deployment on Astro. To apply your changes locally, use `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Save your Dockerfile and run `astro deploy` to deploy your variables to an Astro Deployment. To apply your changes locally, use `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image.
```

4. (Optional) To verify if the environment variables are applied correctly to Astro Deployment or your local Airflow environment, you can use `os.getenv("AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR")` inside of Airflow DAGs and tasks.

    To view a list of all the environment variables set in your local Airflow environment, refer to the Step 4 of [Using Astro CLI in local Airflow environment](#in-your-local-airflow-environment)

To delete an environment variable from your Astro Runtime image, remove or comment the line in your `Dockerfile` that defines it.

:::info

Environment variables set in your Dockerfile are not visible in the Cloud UI.

:::

> ## With Astro CLI

Reviewer: I still think this section should be either removed or converted to a tip within the Cloud UI section. This is not an env var management strategy, this is instead an alternative way to automate changes to variables in the Cloud UI. It's not parallel to the other H2s

> You can use Astro CLI to set environment variables on Astro and your local Airflow environment. 
> 
> You can either use `.env` file to update environment variables on your local Airflow and Astro Deployment or manually add environment variables to your Deployment using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`.
> 
> ### In your local Airflow environment
> 
> If your environment variables contain sensitive information or credentials that you don’t want to expose in plain-text, ensure that your `.env` file is part of `.gitignore` when you deploy these changes to your code repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Astro CLI to set environment variables on Astro and your local Airflow environment. If you're developing locally, the best way to manage environment variables is using your Astro project `.env` file.
```

> 1. Go to your Astro project and open the `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your Astro project `.env` file.
```

2. Use the following format to set your environment variables in the `.env` file:

    ```bash
    KEY=VALUE
    ```

    Environment variables should be in all-caps and not include spaces.

    Alternatively, you can run `astro deployment variable list --save` to copy environment variables from an existing Deployment to a file.

3. Restart your local environment using `astro dev restart`.

4. (Optional) You can run the following commands to confirm if your environment variables were applied:

    1. Run `astro dev bash --scheduler` to login to the scheduler container.
    2. Run `printenv | grep <your-env-variable>` in the container to print the environment variables and find your environment variable.
    3. Run `exit` to exit the container.

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To export the contents of your `.env` file to an Astro Deployment, run the following command:

```bash
astro deployment variable update --deployment-id <your-deployment-id> --load .env
```

:::caution

When you use the`.env` file to add or update environment variables on Astro, it will overwrite all existing variables in your Astro Deployment. To update only select environment variables, run the `astro deployment variable create` command without the `--load` option. For example, the following command creates two new environment variables without affecting existing Deployment environment variables:

```bash
astro deployment variable create AIRFLOW__CORE__DAGBAG_IMPORT_TIMEOUT=60 ENVIRONMENT_TYPE=dev --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv
```
:::

After you deploy environment variables, your Deployment automatically restarts to and applies the variables. To verify if the environment variables were applied correctly, go to the **Variables** tab of your Deployment in the Cloud UI. 
````

Reviewer: I moved this section up and condensed it so that it fit more nicely with the core `.env` management content.

> #### With multiple .env files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use multiple .env files
```

The Astro CLI looks for `.env` by default, but if you want to specify multiple files, make `.env` a top-level directory and create sub-files within that folder.

A project with multiple `.env` files might look like the following:

```
my_project
├── Dockerfile
├── dags
│   └── my_dag
├── include
│   └── my_operators
├── airflow_settings.yaml
└── .env
    ├── dev.env
    └── prod.env
```

> ### In your Astro Deployment
> 
> To add an environment variable to your Astro Deployment, run the following command:
> 
> ```bash
> astro deployment variable create AIRFLOW__CORE__DAGBAG_IMPORT_TIMEOUT=60 ENVIRONMENT_TYPE=dev --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Alternatively, to directly load the contents of your `.env` file to your Astro Deployment use the `--load` flag:
> 
> ```bash
> astro deployment variable create --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv --load .env
> ```
> 
> To update an existing environment variable to your Astro Deployment, use [`astro deployment variable update`](cli/astro-deployment-airflow-variable-update.md) command.
> 
> :::caution
> 
> When you use `.env` file to add or update environment variables, it will overwrite all the variables in your Astro Deployment from your `.env` file. 
> 
> :::
> 
> After using Astro CLI commands to add or update environment variabes to your Deployment, your Deployment automatically restarts to apply the environment variables. To verify if the environment varibles were applied correctly to your Deployment, go to the **Variables** tab of your Deployment in the Cloud UI. 
> 
> You cannot delete an environment variable using the Astro CLI. You either need to use the Cloud UI or use the `.env` file to only include the required environment variables.
> 
> :::tip
> 
> To mark an environment variable as a secret using Astro CLI use the `--secret` flag.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Manage environment variables'
title: 'Manage environment variables on Astro'
id: env-vars-astro
description: Learn how to manage environment variables on Astro
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> On Astro, you can manage environment variable in four different ways for your Deployment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Astro, you can manage environment variable in three different ways for your Deployment:
```

> - Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
> - Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` during deploy
> - Using Astro CLI
>     - Your Astro project's `.env` file
>     - Using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
2. Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` during deploy
3. With the Astro CLI, using either
    - Your Astro project's `.env` file
    - The Astro CLI commands, `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`
```

Author: @lzdanski I was told we were supposed to follow numbers only when we have to follow a specific order else we should have bulleted list ?

Reviewer 2: Ah sorry! I'm confusing my style guides. Go with what we've got established here and thanks for letting me know!

> The method you choose will depend on your specific use case. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method you choose depends on your [specific use case](/astro/env-vars-overview#choose-the-strategy-to-manage-environment-variables). 
```

Use this document to understand how to use these methods to create environment variables on Astro.

## Using the Cloud UI

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**.

> 4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This will permanently hide the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This permanently hides the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.
```

5. Click **Add**.

6. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.

### Edit existing values

> After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. You can modify environment variables that are set as secret. However, the variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, you'll be prompted to enter a new value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. While you can modify environment variables that are set as secret, however, the secret variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, you'll be prompted to enter a new value.
```

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**.

4. Click **Edit value** next to the value you want to edit.

    ![Edit value location](/img/docs/variable-pencil.png)

5. Modify the variable's value, then click **Done editing**.

    ![Done editing location](/img/docs/variable-checkmark.png)

6. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for updated variables to be applied to your Deployment.

## Using your Dockerfile

> If you want to store environment variables using an external version control tool, Astronomer recommends setting them in your `Dockerfile`. This file is automatically created when you first initialize an Astro project using `astro dev init`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to store environment variables with an external version control tool, Astronomer recommends setting them in your `Dockerfile`. This file is automatically created when you first initialize an Astro project using `astro dev init`.
```

:::

1. Go to your Astro project and open the `Dockerfile`.

2. To add the environment variables, declare an ENV command with the environment variable key and value. For example, the following `Dockerfile` sets two environment variables:

    <pre><code parentName="pre">
    {`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
    ENV AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_ACTIVE_RUNS_PER_DAG=1
    ENV AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR=25`}
    </code></pre>

3. After you add your environment variables, use the `astro deploy` command to apply your changes to your Deployment on Astro. To apply your changes locally, use `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image.

4. (Optional) To verify if the environment variables are applied correctly to Astro Deployment or your local Airflow environment, you can use `os.getenv("AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR")` inside of Airflow DAGs and tasks.

    To view a list of all the environment variables set in your local Airflow environment, refer to the Step 4 of [Using Astro CLI in local Airflow environment](#in-your-local-airflow-environment)

:::tip

> Note that, environment variables set in your Dockerfile are not visible in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environment variables set in your Dockerfile are not visible in the Cloud UI.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Edit environment variables'
title: 'Manage environment variables on Astro'
id: env-vars-astro
description: Learn how to manage environment variables on Astro
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

On Astro, you can add, edit, update, or delete environment variables in three different ways for your Deployment:

- Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
- Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` during deploy
- Using Astro CLI
    - Your Astro project's `.env` file
    - Using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`

The method you choose depends on your [specific use case](env-vars-overview.md#choose-the-strategy-to-manage-environment-variables). 

Use this document to understand how to use these methods to create environment variables on Astro.

> ## Using the Cloud UI

Reviewer: The phrasing here is odd. The main decision point for environment variables is not _how_ you set them ("using"), but rather _where_ you set them ("In the control plane"). "Using" sounds like a tool, but what we're really describing here are the steps to store variables in a specific place. We should reframe this doc in terms of where the variables are ending up, rather than how you get them there.

> 1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.
> 
> 2. Click the **Variables** tab.
> 
> 3. Click **Edit Variables**.
> 
> 4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This permanently hides the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.
> 
> 5. Click **Add**.
> 
> 6. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**.

4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This will permanently hide the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.

5. Click **Update Environment Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.
```

### Edit or delete existing values

After you set an environment variable key, only the environment variable value can be modified. While you can modify environment variables that are set as secret, however, the secret variable value is never shown. When you modify a secret environment variable, you'll be prompted to enter a new value.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**. 

> 4. Click the pencil icon next to the value you want to edit, modify the variable's value, then click on the tick-mark to complete editing.
> 
>     ![Edit value location](/img/docs/variable-pencil.png)
> 
> 5. (Optional) To delete a variable, click on the bin icon next to the variable.
> 
> 6. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for updated variables to be applied to your Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Modify the value of the variable you wish to edit.

    ![Edit value location](/img/docs/variables-edit.png)

5. Click **Update Environment Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for updated variables to be applied to your Deployment.
```

    <pre><code parentName="pre">
    {`FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:${siteVariables.runtimeVersion}
    ENV AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_ACTIVE_RUNS_PER_DAG=1
    ENV AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR=25`}
    </code></pre>

3. After you add your environment variables, use the `astro deploy` command to apply your changes to your Deployment on Astro. To apply your changes locally, use `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image.

4. (Optional) To verify if the environment variables are applied correctly to Astro Deployment or your local Airflow environment, you can use `os.getenv("AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VAR")` inside of Airflow DAGs and tasks.

    To view a list of all the environment variables set in your local Airflow environment, refer to the Step 4 of [Using Astro CLI in local Airflow environment](#in-your-local-airflow-environment)

To delete an environment variable from your Astro Runtime image, just remove or comment the line in your `Dockerfile` that defines it.

:::info

Environment variables set in your Dockerfile are not visible in the Cloud UI.

:::

> ## Using Astro CLI

Reviewer: I would cut this section entirely, and maybe briefly mention CLI storage in the Astro environment variables section. This topic takes up half of the document to explain an alternative delivery mechanism for Astro environment variables. Although we're presenting it parallel to the other options, it's not really a storage mechanism in and of itself.

The other two options have specific benefits and drawbacks that we state, but we don't have that here. I'd like to see the local content in the Astro CLI tab, and parred down version of "In your Astro Deployment" within the "Using the Cloud UI" section

---

> sidebar_label: 'Manage environment variables'

Author: I am not sure, will Edit include add, update and delete as well ? May be customize is better ?

title: 'Manage environment variables on Astro'
id: env-vars-astro
description: Learn how to manage environment variables on Astro
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

On Astro, you can manage environment variable in three different ways for your Deployment:

- Your Deployment's **Variable** tab in the Cloud UI
- Your Astro project's `Dockerfile` during deploy
- Using Astro CLI
    - Your Astro project's `.env` file
    - Using Astro CLI commands `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update`

The method you choose depends on your [specific use case](/astro/env-vars-overview#choose-the-strategy-to-manage-environment-variables). 

> Use this document to understand how to use these methods to create environment variables on Astro.

Author: that is a good point. I think I can add a small note.

> Use this document to understand how to use these methods to create environment variables on Astro.

Author: done

## Using the Cloud UI

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Variables** tab.

3. Click **Edit Variables**.

4. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This permanently hides the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.

5. Click **Add**.

6. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for new variables to be applied to your Deployment.

> ### Edit existing values

Author: For deleting, we just have to click the trash icon from the UI which is self-explanatory ?

> ### Edit existing values

Author: done
